Let's start a new section. In this tutorial, let's see how interfaces are implemented in the UE.
Let's find out what a user widget is and display the character's life count.
Before we start, let's add an extra function to the lives component.
Let's call it GetHealthPercent.
It will return the percentage of the remaining lives, that is, if there is zero lives, it will return zero percent,
if the number of lives is equal to MaxHealth, then it will return 100 percent. To do this, we need to divide Health by MaxHealth.
And so that we don't accidentally have division by 0. Let's put a check in the BeginPlay function.
Let's write check (MaxHealth> 0). A negative value for life is also not correct. Launch editor.
Let's start creating the user interface. The first thing we will create is a new folder.
Let's call it UI and let's create our first widget. To do this, right-click
and select widget blueprint from the ser interface menu. We call it WBP_PlayerHUD.
In this lesson, we will work exclusively with blueprints. Opening up our new asset.
Before us is the unreal engine interface editor. It's called UMG (Unreal Motion Graphics).
There is a palette window on the left. All user interface elements available to us are located here: buttons,
checkboxes, sliders and just, for example, text. Elements can be dragged from the palette
to the stage, which is essentially our screen. Below the palette is the hierarchy window.
It shows how UI elements are grouped relative to each other: who is the parent,
who is the inheritor, and so on. The root component is called Canvas Panel. Let's pull out an additional
component on the stage , which is called the Horizontal Box - this element is used to align
and group other elements in the form of a string. In the hierarchy window, we can rearrange our elements
and drag some of them into the Horizontal Box, so they become children
and the transformation of these elements changes depending on the transformation of the parent.
Select the text block element. All possible properties of this element are
presented in the details panel on the right . We can change the text, we can change the color of the text,
the font size, we can adjust the alignment, if it makes sense, visibility, and so on. Quite a lot of properties.
We have to work with some of them. You can also, for example, set up items in a horizontal box to completely
fill the entire space. To do this, select the button and press fill in front of the property size.
Click the compile button and let's see how we can add this widget to our viewport.
This can be done in absolutely any class: in character, in game mode, in a controller,
anywhere, but we have a special HUD class where we painted our crosshair,
so let's consider this class as the controller of our interfaces.
Let's create a blueprint class based on it. We call BP_STUGameHUD.
And go to the event graph. On BeginPlay, let's create our widget.
This is done using the CreateWidget node. In the class parameter, we need to select our widget.
And after that, call the AddToViewport function on the created object. Compile.
In world settings, change the HUD class to blueprint and launch the game. Our interface has been added.
If we press Shift + F1, then this will free our cursor and it will become available for the user
interface. How to do this programmatically so that the cursor is available in the game, we will see a little
later in our course. So, the widget has been added. Let's now display the number of lives.
First, remove all our test elements and add an element called the progress bar,
in fact, this element consists of two pictures: one picture is the background, and the other picture
is responsible for filling the progress bar, changes its size depending on the percentage.
Go to the details panel and find the percent property, if we change it,
the filling of this element changes. Let's go to the style section
and change the Tint parameter in the property Fill Image - make the fill color green.
Another important concept that we need to know when working with UMG is property binding.
Opposite many properties, we see a checkbox called bind. It allows us to create
an update function for a specific property, and if we click on bind in
front of property percent, then the create binding popup appears. Click on it.
We have automatically created the GetPercent function and the interface editor has 2 states: the first is the designer
where we were, and the second is a graph that is analogous to the event graph of a blueprint,
that is, we can also modify the interface depending on the events in the game.
Let's rename the get percent function, click on it and name it GetHealthPercent. We bind this function
to property percent. This means that whenever the return value changes,
we will get an updated percent in our user interface. Let's
access our character, for this the widget has a special function called
GetOwningPlayerPawn, which returns a pointer to the pawn that we are currently controlling.
All our components for the character are in the protected section, that is, we can
not directly access the health component, but actors have a special template function
called GetComponentByClass and as a template parameter it takes the component class of
interest to us , that is, we specify with you STUHealthComponent. We can call the function
we made at the beginning of this tutorial GetHealthPercent and substitute the result into the return value of the bind function.
Let's check all our pointers for validity, for this there is a special
IsValid macro. We check the validity of the pawn and the health component.
We can also copy the return node.
And if something is not valid for us, then we return 0.
Let's check what we got. At the start of the game, our progress bar is completely filled.
If we run into a damage actor, then the amount of life decreases and the progress bar displays the
quantitative percentage of our life, and if we die, then it is empty. The only thing is, let's change the
refresh rate of life in character, because now they look a little twitchy.
Let's put heal update time = 0.03 in the health component. We launch. We run into the damage actor and the lives increase more smoothly.
That's all. In this lesson we got acquainted with UMG in blueprints, in the next we will move on to C ++